DOCSUP-11655: Document the SQLite (#27703)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/sqlite.md

---
toc_priority: 7
toc_title: SQLite
---

# SQLite {#sqlite}

> The engine provides to import and export data to SQLite and query SQLite tables directly in ClickHouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The engine allows to import and export data to SQLite and supports queries to SQLite tables directly from ClickHouse.
```

## Creating a Table {#creating-a-table}

``` sql
    CREATE TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] [db.]table_name 
    (
        name1 [type1], 
        name2 [type2], ...
    ) ENGINE = SQLite('db_path', 'table')
```

**Engine Parameters**

> -   `name1, name2, ...` — The column names.
> -   `type1, type2, ...` — The column types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `name1`, `name2`, ... — The column names.
-   `type1`, `type2`, ... — The column types.
```

> -   `db_path` — Path to SQLite file with the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `db_path` — Path to SQLite file with a database.
```

> -   `table` — The SQLite table name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `table` — Name of a table in the SQLite database.
```

## Usage Example {#usage-example}

> Show query creating the SQLite table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shows a query creating the SQLite table:
```

```sql
SHOW CREATE TABLE sqlite_db.table2;
```

``` text
CREATE TABLE SQLite.table2
( 
    `col1` Nullable(Int32), 
    `col2` Nullable(String)
) 
ENGINE = SQLite('sqlite.db','table2');
```

Returns the data from the table:

``` sql
SELECT * FROM sqlite_db.table2 ORDER BY col1;
```

```text
┌─col1─┬─col2──┐
│    1 │ text1 │
│    2 │ text2 │
│    3 │ text3 │
└──────┴───────┘
```

**See Also**

> 

Reviewer: - [SQLite](../../../engines/database-engines/sqlite.md) engine

> -   [sqlite](../../../sql-reference/table-functions/sqlite.md) table function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [SQLite](../../../engines/database-engines/sqlite.md) engine
-   [sqlite](../../../sql-reference/table-functions/sqlite.md) table function
```
